>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
And so
we know how many parameters do we have?
So our layers, we're gonna train
of the 355 million again.
If you were to get the tiniest
open source model today,
you would like, [SOUND] 7 billion.
That's a weak model, right?
Yeah, like the tiny ones,
I'll show you LLM Studio in a little bit.
You can see the big LLMs on hugging
face that you can download and
easily run on your MacBook today
are in the billions of parameters.
This one is 355 million parameters.
But also, does anyone wanna
watch me do this for six hours?
And we're only gonna train
a subset of those, right?
With our extra data.
So we've got this library from Hugging
Face where we can pull in this parameter
efficient fine tuning with that model and
this configuration.
The task type is that
causallm that we saw before.
Some other little settings that we
can talk about if we're interested.
Then we tokenize.
Basically each example,
we pad it to whatever the maximum
length is of that tokenizer.
So we want them all to be the same length.
So this is going to be like
whatever the quote is,
I don't care how long the quote is.
The quote is how long the quote is.
And then pad it with that extra space so
they're all equal.
And so put that in place.
And this is what like our first,
like this is what the first record
is going to end up looking like.
So we can see that this is our
blank tokens at this point, right?
So all the stuff we saw before.
So this quote from Oscar Wilde is going
to be quote by Oscar Wilde, colon,
space, open quote, the quote,
close quote, end of statement, right?
And so you can see the tokens.
It breaks it up into the various tokens.
It's like cool.
It was this long.
We don't actually care
about the rest of them.
They're all these BS tokens which
are slightly different for each one.
If we chose a different model and
a different tokenizer,
the I don't care token
is probably different.
This is the padding token in this case.
And so that is effectively what the,
that is the number version of this string.
Because this is the text that we made
really when we mapped everything.
And then we just say, basically,
here's all the fancy numbers,
I'm going to feed them into you and
you're going to go for it.
So the trainer API has a training
loop where we evaluate it, we log it,
we do some checkpoints along the way.
These are all the arguments
we're going to take.
We're gonna write it to a file
called gpt2-medium-quotes.
We're gonna do one full
pass through the data.
You can do more full passes if you want.
Obviously doing more full passes with
a law of diminishing returns is good,
but then we gotta wait for
that and I don't want to.
So play with this.
Of course, right?
We don't necessarily need larger
batches cuz everything's small.
Yeah, these are.
I think I was just tweaking stuff,
trying to make stuff that it wasn't
particularly long because again,
if you are doing it for production or
for something that you're trying to do,
letting fine tuning taking
30 minutes is not the end of
the world to have it forever.
If people are watching you on a Friday,
Dustin would like to
go home at some point.
We do the shorter version for
the fine tuning.
How does the model know which
parameters are tunable?
Well, that's the cool part is because
we're freezing the model, right?
We're not actually fine tuning the model.
We're putting like a layer of
effectively zeroed out layer,
like a few layers of zeroed out stuff on
top of it and fine tuning those, right?
And so it's just effectively like.
And that's the nice part,
you don't have to do the whole model and
you don't have to even do a subset and the
underlying model doesn't change, right?
And so
that's what makes it like pluggable.
We can take that off and you don't have to
store a whole second version of the model.
You can kind of just
keep that piece to it.
Yeah, so we train this.
And again like I think
it took like five or
10 minutes on when I did on the free one.
But for our own sanity I bumped up to
a bigger one where it took two minutes.
And like, if it is truly like
you are trying to train a model,
get like stuff in a different format or
style,
whatever, honestly, three hours would
be fine, half an hour would be fine.
Right, like whatever.
But four, for the purpose of all of us
in a room today I went with a relatively
small model with a relatively small
data set on a relatively fast GPU.
But I did this on that T4 and it's yeah,
go make yourself a cup of coffee or
something and
it'll be done and not too bad.
And like you could also, if you've
got a little more patience and again,
if you've got like a gaming machine,
go do it on your Computer, right?
Absolutely, on a M2 Pro I didn't
have the patience for that.
But you can do it right?
Like easily.
But like you can also like there are many,
many a service out there that
will rent you a GPU these days.
Turns out that is a widely invested
in part of the ecosystem for reasons.
So we did train this model and
like it's saved.
You know where we have this GB two
Medium quotes, final whatever.
As you can tell I'm still a JavaScript
engineer because I did not use underscores
in my naming convention
because I don't like them.
So that's the telltale sign, that and
when I can't tell the difference between
integers and floats in most
languages is another way to tell.
Okay, so what I'm gonna do is I've
got the base model where we're gonna
have a pipeline base generator and
we're gonnasay text generation.
We're gonna give it gpt2-medium and
the tokenizer which I probably
could have left out but I didn't.
And we'll look at the result for
one sequence and
we'll look at the response and
then we'll go to our fine tune
model where I pass it in directly
here with a few more stuff.
Low CPU memory usage.
Again you can play around
with some of this.
You'll obviously get better results if
you don't do all of the please don't
blow through the free tier that I did but
also I did that for you so whatever.
Cool, cool, cool.
And yeah, we grab the fine tuned model.
Yeah because I'm loading from
memory when you put the string in
Hugging Face Transformer library grabs
from Hugging Face knows how to do that.
Obviously I could theoretically if I
wanted to push this model up that I made
up to Hugging Face and you would have.
My model didn't seem worth it.
Happy to do it if somebody really cares.
But so it could just be a model on Hugging
Face and that's the GitHub aspect of
Hugging Face where you could
fine tune a model to something.
You could push it up,
somebody else could fork it,
fine tune it in a different way, right?
It's like the fun days of GitHub, right?
Not that GitHub's not fun, but
GitHub is very much a utility.
We all take it for
granted but it seemed new and
interesting that you could fork code and
repos.
You can still do that.
It just doesn't seem as amazing
anymore just cuz we're used to it,
we're dead inside.
That's a pre generated one.
That's from last time I ran that.
That's my newest, latest and
greatest fine tuned one.
So let's rerun that.
We'll see the difference where.
That's the original one where okay,
it starts with again I wrote quote
by Bob Dylan was my initial prompt.
So it's picking up from there.
So quote by Bob Dylan comes from me.
Everything after that comes from
the model where you can see like okay,
it doesn't know the colon.
I mean it plausibly seems like a quote,
but
it's not keeping that format.
And it's kind of like rambly and
going on and
probably until it hits the max tokens,
if it ever hits the max tokens.
And then like I don't even
know what it's talking about.
Right.
Versus the one that came into my fine
tune model where if you think about
the string that I formatted that first
Oscar Wilde quote that we saw where it's
like quote by Oscar Wilde,
colon, open parentheses,
like a reasonable size quote,
end your conversation, right?
Even before, I think some of the stuff
we were doing before wasn't like there
weren't a lot of those end of, you know,
end of sentence, end of whatever,
end of segment tokens.
So even when I said hey, listen for
the end of segment token and stop talking,
GPT2 was still rambling.
But now it has been pretty well trained.
All those quotes are pretty short cause
they're just quotes that you would see on
an inspirational poster.
And then they all have that end of
sequence token which causes it to stop.
And so you can see that
two minutes of training on
2,500 lines of an open
source data set radically
changed how that relatively
small model behaved.
All right, so who's tired of text?
Is everyone bored with?
Dustin's bored with text.
Everyone's bored with text.
Who wants to make images?
Dustin wants to make images.